# Quiz Score Predictor
##### Colin Cassens
##### Final Project for Purdue ECE Data Science Spring 2020
 Linear regression to predict quiz scores based on training data.

## Dataset
  The dataset describes video watching behavior of students:
      (`fracSpent`, `fracComp`, `fracPaused`, `numPauses`, `avgPBR`, `numRWs`, `numFFs`)

## Clustering
  I modified the data set to take all the data for the videos a single student (who has watched at least 5 videos) has watched and averaging the points. Each of these averages is now a point in the problem 1 dataset. I then ran Kmeans and GMM on these points and calculated the MSE.

  I decided to use 8 clusters for Kmeans, since that is where I saw good results and was right around the bottom of the “knee” when I used the elbow method and I didn’t want to go much higher to start to trivialize the data with too many clusters. I ended up getting an MSE of 3583.38 when I ran this. Then I ran the same data through a GMM using the full covariance mode and 2 components. By taking the diagonal of the covariance (which gives the variance) and averaging this I was able to get an MSE of around 3555.49. This wasn’t much better than the Kmeans MSE so I decided that I would keep experimenting with my strategy. I next tried using the ‘diag’ covariance mode, which brought my MSE down to 340.53. Then finally I tried the ‘tied’ covariance mode which brought my MSE all the way down to 26.85. I was very happy with this result and can conclude that the data can be fit well using this method.

## Average Quiz Score Predictor
  With the goal of using students video watching behavior to predict quiz scores, I have first narrowed down the dataset to only the students that completed at least 50% of the video quizzes. This dataset is relatively small (94 students) and we want to determine if we are able to predict their average quiz scores based on their video watching behavior. I averaged the feature data as well as the quiz scores for each student, then I divided the set into two parts: a training set (80% of the data) and a test set (20% of the data).
  I chose to implement a linear regression model for the data to see if I could accurately predict the scores of students in the test set. I chose to implement the linear regression because of its ability to quickly learn trends in the feature vector by adjusting weights, so we hopefully could reach a better solution then something like a neural net which would require a lot more training data then we have available. I also implemented ridge regression on the data so I could see if I could get better results than with the linear regression, and I chose to test multiple different lambda values to see what worked best for the ridge regression. I am going to analyze the effectiveness of these models by finding the MSE and RMSE of the models results on the test set versus the actual labels. I would hope to have a RMSE of less than 5%. This would tell us that the average distance between the predicted score and the actual score is less than 5%. I think that 5% would be good enough for us to use in a real situation to predict quiz scores.
  After running and the test I ended up getting an RMSE for the linear regression model that was 21%. This is far too high for using to actually predict quiz scores for students, as it reflects that on average the learner is off by 21%. When I ran with ridge regression, I tried multiple different lambda values and settled on 0.9 since it gave me the best results. Unfortunately, the ridge regression was barely able to get any better results, with the RMSE only beating the linear RMSE by .0012. I think that part of the reason we are getting such high RMSE for both linear and ridge regression is the fact that the dataset we are using is so small. 94 data points is not nearly large enough to train a highly accurate model. I would be interested to see how well this model would work if we had 1000+ training points, because I think it would be much better. Overall, I do not think that we would be able to train an accurate model using such a small dataset and it proved to be a very inaccurate way of generating quiz scores.

## Actual Quiz Score Predictor
  I chose once again to implement the linear regression model, similarly to how I implemented it in problem 2, but this time with many more data points, and the data points being individual quizzes. The goal here is to correctly guess whether or not the student will get the quiz question correct based on the video watching stats in for just that video. This means that I also had to implement a decision boundary for the data. In order to find the best decision boundary, I will write a program to test many different ones and use the one that finds me the best MSE. This will tell us what percentage of the predictions are incorrect. I believe that this test will be successful if the model can return the correct answer more than 80% of the time.
  Using the model I developed, I was able to predict the score on the quiz 83.6% of the time using the linear model, and the same with the ridge regression model that I also tried. I would consider this a very successful test. I think that making the model predict
  on using just individual quizzes instead of average quiz data was harder, but in this problem we had so much more data at our disposal for training that it helped the learner greatly in getting accurate results.
